PN 79169
RN 01149 
AN 79221582
AU Weller-P-H.  Bush-E.  Preece-M-A.  Norman-A-P.  Matthew-D-J.
TI The short-term effects of chest physiotherapy on lung function tests
   in children with cystic fibrosis.
SO Monogr-Paediatr. 1979. 10. P 58-9.
MJ CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: th.  LUNG: pp.  PHYSICAL-THERAPY.
MN CHILD.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: pp.  HUMAN.  RESPIRATORY-FUNCTION-TESTS.
   THORAX.  TIME-FACTORS.
AB Chest physiotherapy is an important part of the treatment program of
   children with cystic fibrosis, but controlled studies of its effects
   are few.  27 children with cystic fibrosis, 20 being chronic sputum
   producers and 7 non-sputum producers, were studied in hospital with
   serial lung function tests on 3 consecutive days.  On the 1st day
   physiotherapy was performed twice; on the 2nd day no physiotherapy
   was performed; on the 3rd day the two periods of physiotherapy were
   preceded by an inhaled bronchodilator (Rimiterol).  Lung function
   tests included peak flow, forced vital capacity (FVC), forced
   expiratory volume in 1 sec (FEV1.0) and residual volume to total
   lung capacity ratio, and were measured at the beginning of each day
   and at similar intervals throughout the 3 days.  Sputum volume and
   cough frequency were noted on day 1 and day 3.  Physiotherapy
   resulted in significant improvement of peak flow in the sputum
   producers.  However, the FVC and FEV1.0, while improving after
   physiotherapy, also improved on the control day when no
   physiotherapy was performed.  This suggests that physiotherapy may
   be effective in removing sputum from central large airways with
   resultant improvement in peak flow, but has little added effect on
   the more peripheral airways, whose airflow improves through the day
   with normal activity.  No significant effect was shown in the non-
   sputum producers although there was a trend towards improvement in
   peak flow.  A bronchodilator before physiotherapy may be beneficial
   in those patients who demonstrate significant reduction in airflow
   obstruction at formal testing of bronchodilator response, but may
   lessen the beneficial effects of physiotherapy in those without a
   positive response.  The study illustrates the importance of
   examining difference methods of chest physiotherapy, to find ways of
   improving sputum clearance.
CT   1   GOTZ M                EUR J RESPIR DIS                61   122 980