PN 76188
RN 00542 
AN 76101935
AU Solomons-C.
TI Letter: Questions regarding arginine hydrochloride inhalation.
SO Pediatrics. 1976 Jan. 57(1). P 166.
MJ ARGININE: ad.  CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: dt.
MN ARGININE: tu.  HUMAN.
EX With regard to the recent study of Dietzsch et al. on the use of
   arginine hydrochloride inhalation in cystic fibrosis patients, I wish
   to point out that these investigators acted irresponsibly in exposing
   their patients for an appreciable period (seven weeks) to a
   preparation which is known to be irritating.  I would suggest that
   the deleterious effects seen by Dietzsch et al. are due to their
   inattention to experimental detail and lack of communication with
   other investigators. - Dietzsch et al. give the impression in their
   article that all arginine solution are detrimental to the lung.  We
   wish to point out that L-arginine hydrochloride buffered with a
   sodium solution is irritative to the airway of cystic fibrosis
   patients.  However, no comparison studies were done with L-arginine
   buffered with free base. - The fate of these children with cystic
   fibrosis depends on the quality of the inhalation treatment.  This
   means if you replace a good mucolytic drug with a better one you step
   by step approach the ideal mucolytic solution.  We think it to be
   unethical to use other, less effective, drugs or solutions in a
   control group (e.g., saline or distilled water).  We did not state
   that arginine solutions are "irritative" or that arginine treatment
   is "dangerous."  The N-acetylcysteine solution, which was
   successfully used before the treatment of our patients, was buffered
   with sodium hydroxide to a pH of 7.0.  The quantity of sodium which
   was administered during each inhalation amounts to only 0.04 mval of
   sodium so that an injurious pharmacological effect can be excluded.
   Both drugs were well tolerated and had no "deleterious" effects.
RF 001   DIETZSCH HJ           PEDIATRICS                      55    96 975
   002   SOLOMONS CC           PEDIATRICS                      47   384 971