PN 76206
RN 00559 
AN 77127499
AU Lober-C-W.
TI Manifestations of cystic fibrosis in adults [letter].
SO South-Med-J. 1976 Nov. 69(11). P 1525.
MJ CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: fg.
MN CYSTIC-FIBROSIS: di.  HUMAN.
EX Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a recessive autosomal genetic disease in
   which exocrine glands secrete highly viscous mucus.  Variable genetic
   penetrance ("organ sparing") results in a broad spectrum of clinical
   presentations.  The diagnosis of CF is usually established by the
   presence of chronic obstructive lung disease and/or gastrointestinal
   dysfunction, together with elevated levels of sweat electrolytes
   (chloride > 60 mEq/liter), markedly diminished duodenal pancreatic
   enzyme concentrations, or pathologic changes in tissue.  Family
   history may occasionally be helpful.  The metabolic basis of CF is
   unknown.  The classic stereotype of the CF patient is an infant with
   a chronic cough, diarrhea, and growth failure.  Improved medical care
   is enabling many of these patients to reach adulthood, and increased
   diagnostic suspicion is resulting in identification of the disease in
   more adults.  Based upon analysis of over 11,000 cases of CF reported
   during the year 1974 by 119 Cystic Fibrosis Centers, the National
   Cystic Fibrosis Foundation estimated that the probability of an
   individual with CF surviving to age 20 was approximately 39%.
   Although most of these adults are currently under the care of
   pediatricians, the development of medical, psychiatric, surgical, or
   obstetric complications may necessitate the involvement of other
   professionals.  A joint study of cystic fibrosis in adults conducted
   by Duke Medical Center and the NIH has shown that the majority of
   affected adults, including those diagnosed early in life, are married
   and work full- or part-time.  Many manifest few if any symptoms until
   relatively late in life.  Since this study was retrospective, the
   reported frequencies of the clinical findings tend to underestimate,
   in all instances, the actual incidence in the population studied.
   The reported incidence of CF in the United States has been
   conservatively estimated at 1:2,000 live births.  If all adults with
   clubbing, infertility, and other symptoms were evaluated for CF, the
   true incidence would certainly be higher.
RF 001   ANON                  CF FND 1974 REP SURVI STUD PA            976
   002   LOBER CW              PROC AM COLL CHEST 40TH AN MT            974
   003   DI SANTAGNESE PA      IN: DOWNEY JA                         25 974